# A Visualization Workflow for Quantifying Parameter Sensitivities to Uncertainties for Hydrologic Models
# National Water Center Summer Institute 
Authors: Kyla Semmendinger, Catherine Finkenbiner /n
Hydroinformatics Theme

At continental-scales, models require modular components for representing individual hydrologic processes due to factors such as data availability and physical attributes. Therefore, the need for a common procedure within the hydrologic field to evaluate model output based on parameter sensitivity and performance metrics is evident. We developed a reproducible workflow for evaluating parameter sensitivities and uncertainties using the hydrologic modeling framework of the National Water Model (NWM). The NWM simulates observed and forecasted streamflow across the contiguous United States (CONUS) several times a day. High variability in soil types, elevations, vegetation characteristics, and forcings (e.g. precipitation) across CONUS lead to complexities when comparing model outputs and observed streamflow datasets. Our workflow objectively evaluates model output as a function of parameter choice using both numerical and visualization techniques. The workflow was implemented in three case studies, provided by researchers at the National Water Center Summer Institute: 1) hydrologic models of soil physical processes from the NWM and TOPMODEL, 2) channel parameter ensemble schemes and streamflow from the NWM, and 3) representations of near-coastal dynamics developed from NWM and D-Flow models. The results can be reproduced and visualized using python/R jupyter notebooks within a community GitHub data repository. Sensitivity was evaluated using variance-based methods and Bayesian theory. Uncertainty in parameter spaces were quantified to highlight the impact of unreliable input data on model output. Model parameter sensitivities and uncertainties were evaluated numerically and visually to provide a comprehensive outlook on their impacts on model output. For each of the three case studies, we provide a summary and interpretation of the workflow results. Our workflow can be integrated into hydrologic modeling frameworks, like the NWM, for objective modular model and parameter scheme evaluation based on a data-driven approach to model selection.
