## Case Study 3

### Project Title: Model-Based Parametric Analysis of Total Water Prediction in Coastal Transition Zones of the US East and Gulf Coasts

#### Abstract
The threat of coastal flood inundation resulting from a combination of extreme precipitation, river runoff and storm surge motivates the existence of an operational total water prediction modeling solution in coastal zones.  While development of a National Water Model (NWM) is underway, coupling the NWM to coastal hydrodynamic models will satisfy an important enhancement objective and advance the initiative for total water analysis and forecasting in vulnerable coastal areas.  However, due to the incredibly dynamic coastal environment, operational hydrodynamic prediction models are computationally expensive.  In addition, complexity of the physical characteristics in these areas create a difficult environment for determining input parameter contributions toward model outputs.  Creation of idealized model domains can simplify the physical intricacies of an area under study, aiding in testing of sensitivities of outputs to various physical inputs.  The objective of this study was to investigate input model parameter contributions towards output variability and possible parameter interactions to provide insight for improved operational model calibration in coastal zones and increased computational efficiency.  Simulations were performed over a variety of idealized coastal zone domain geometries and physical input parameters to produce model outputs on which a targeted parametric and performance analyses could be performed.  Simplified model domains were based on an assessment of estuaries along the US East and Gulf Coasts.  Physical input parameters included river discharge, bed roughness, and tidal range.

See Github repository for dataset and analysis: https://github.com/taataam/SI_2019_Coastal
